docs/en/migration/migration200to210.adoc, before:

= v2.0.0 → v2.1.0

coff:ee v2.0.0 -> v2.1.0 migration description, news, changes

== What's new

THe gRPC support has been introduced. 
Thanks to this, a new subproject collector named `coffee-grpc` was created.

=== coffee-grpc
The following feature supports have been added to the system:

* `coffee-grpc-api`: General gRPC handling for the Coff:ee API, including annotations and versioning.
* `coffee-grpc-base`: Collector of protobuf and gRPC stubs for general usage.
* `coffee-grpc-protoc`: Support for generating classes from proto files.
* `coffee-dto/coffee-dto-xsd2proto`: Generated proto files generated from the `coffee-dto-xsd` XSD files.
* `coffee-dto/coffee-dto-stub-gen`: Generated classes from Coff:ee proto files.
* `coffee-grpc-server-extension` - Support for CDI gRPC server implementation.
* `coffee-grpc-client-extension` - Support for CDI gRPC client implementation.
* `coffee-grpc-traces-api` - Coffee tracing API (annotations...)
* `coffee-grpc-opentracing-impl` - gRPC https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-opentracing[microprofile-opentracing] implementation

== Changes

* Bump com.google.guava:guava https://github.com/google/guava/releases/tag/v31.1[31.1-jre]
-> https://github.com/google/guava/releases/tag/v32.1.1[32.1.1-jre]
(https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-7g45-4rm6-3mm3[CVE-2023-2976])

=== coffee-module-etcd

** Bump io.etcd:jetcd-core 0.6.1 -> 0.7.5
** In case of multiple classloaders, the `DefaultEtcdConfigImpl` class was unable to find the values defined in the microprofile-config.properties file.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesnt need any migration.

=== coffee-rest

* An `OptimisticLockException` has been introduced, with the default error code `CoffeeFaultType.OPTIMISTIC_LOCK_EXCEPTION`.
* The error handling in the `DefaultBaseExceptionMapper` class has been redesigned:
* Business error - for BusinessException, a status code of 422 is given instead of the previous 500 status codes.
* For a technical error - OptimisticLockException, a status code of 409 is given instead of the previous 500 status codes.

==== Migration

* To keep the exception status code handling as before, it is necessary to create a separate ExceptionMapper on projects.

=== coffee-module-mp-restclient

** The `DefaultBaseExceptionResponseExceptionMapper` sets the HTTP status code in the `RestClientResponseException` 

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesnt need any migration.

=== coffee-tool

** NPE fix in AnnotationUtil.getAnnotation(Class<?> clazz, Class<A> annotationClass) method 

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesnt need any migration.

=== BatchService

** Even the native insert/update methods (batchMergeNative, batchInsertNative, batchUpdateNative) take the insertable and updateable flags into account.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesnt need any migration.

Commit message:

#477 query to native sql fix

docs/en/migration/migration200to210.adoc, after:

= v2.0.0 → v2.1.0

coff:ee v2.0.0 -> v2.1.0 migration description, news, changes

== What's new

THe gRPC support has been introduced. 
Thanks to this, a new subproject collector named `coffee-grpc` was created.

=== coffee-grpc
The following feature supports have been added to the system:

* `coffee-grpc-api`: General gRPC handling for the Coff:ee API, including annotations and versioning.
* `coffee-grpc-base`: Collector of protobuf and gRPC stubs for general usage.
* `coffee-grpc-protoc`: Support for generating classes from proto files.
* `coffee-dto/coffee-dto-xsd2proto`: Generated proto files generated from the `coffee-dto-xsd` XSD files.
* `coffee-dto/coffee-dto-stub-gen`: Generated classes from Coff:ee proto files.
* `coffee-grpc-server-extension` - Support for CDI gRPC server implementation.
* `coffee-grpc-client-extension` - Support for CDI gRPC client implementation.
* `coffee-grpc-traces-api` - Coffee tracing API (annotations...)
* `coffee-grpc-opentracing-impl` - gRPC https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-opentracing[microprofile-opentracing] implementation

== Changes

* Bump com.google.guava:guava https://github.com/google/guava/releases/tag/v31.1[31.1-jre]
-> https://github.com/google/guava/releases/tag/v32.1.1[32.1.1-jre]
(https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-7g45-4rm6-3mm3[CVE-2023-2976])

=== coffee-module-etcd

** Bump io.etcd:jetcd-core 0.6.1 -> 0.7.5
** In case of multiple classloaders, the `DefaultEtcdConfigImpl` class was unable to find the values defined in the microprofile-config.properties file.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesnt need any migration.

=== coffee-rest

* An `OptimisticLockException` has been introduced, with the default error code `CoffeeFaultType.OPTIMISTIC_LOCK_EXCEPTION`.
* The error handling in the `DefaultBaseExceptionMapper` class has been redesigned:
* Business error - for BusinessException, a status code of 422 is given instead of the previous 500 status codes.
* For a technical error - OptimisticLockException, a status code of 409 is given instead of the previous 500 status codes.

==== Migration

* To keep the exception status code handling as before, it is necessary to create a separate ExceptionMapper on projects.

=== coffee-module-mp-restclient

** The `DefaultBaseExceptionResponseExceptionMapper` sets the HTTP status code in the `RestClientResponseException` 

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesnt need any migration.

=== coffee-tool

** NPE fix in AnnotationUtil.getAnnotation(Class<?> clazz, Class<A> annotationClass) method 

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesnt need any migration.

=== coffee-jpa

** NoSuchMethodException fix in JPAUtil.toNativeSQL(NoEx) which has been caused by the hibernate 6.x upgrade. 

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesnt need any migration.

=== BatchService

** Even the native insert/update methods (batchMergeNative, batchInsertNative, batchUpdateNative) take the insertable and updateable flags into account.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesnt need any migration.
