docs/en/migration/migration270to280.adoc, before:

= v2.7.0 → v2.8.0

coff:ee v2.7.0 -> v2.8.0 migration description, news, changes

== Global

Dependency replacement: `org.hibernate:hibernate-core` -> `org.hibernate.orm:hibernate-core` (the former artifact was just a proxy).

=== coffee-jpa

💥 ***BREAKING CHANGE*** 💥

The `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.jpa.sql.batch.BatchService` has been deleted.

==== Migration

* Add the new `hu.icellmobilsoft.frappee:frappee-jpa-batch-api` module to the Maven dependencies.
* The `hu.icellmobilsoft.frappee.jpa.batch.IJpaBatchService` must be used instead of the former `BatchService`.
* The `HibernateBatchService` Hibernate specific implementation of the `IJpaBatchService` can be found in the
`hu.icellmobilsoft.frappee:frappee-hiberante-batch` module.
* The JakartaEE 10 producer of the `HibernateBatchService` can be found in the `frappee-hiberante-batch-jee10`
module.
* If the former `BatchService` is extended by your project the new `HibernateBatchService` must be extended and a new
producer must be created. For more information check the Frapp:EE documentation.

=== coffee-dto-base

The `TechnicalException` has been deprecated. The new `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.se.api.exception.TechnicalException`
 should be used instead from the `coffee-se-api` module.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration. It is recommended to use the new
 `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.se.api.exception.TechnicalException`.

=== coffee-tool

The `RandomUtil` has been deprecated. The new `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.se.util.string.RandomUtil` should be used
instean from the `coffee-se-util` module.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration. It is recommended to use the new
 `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.se.util.string.RandomUtil`.

=== coffee-se-api

Intorducing the new `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.se.api.exception.TechnicalException`.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration.

=== coffee-se-util

New coff:ee module. Collection of utility classes.

Introducing the new `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.se.util.string.RandomUtil`.

* The generateToken() method has been made `public` unlike in the old RandomUtil class.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration.

=== coffee-mode-base

The `EntityIdGenerator` uses the new `RandomUtil` from the `coffee-se-util` module to generate random identifiers.
 Its implementation is 100% identical to the former one.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration.

=== coffee-rest

* Support of multiple xml catalog file separated with `,`
* For marshalling, you can give `JaxbTool` multiple classes to add to `JAXBContext`

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration.

=== coffee-grpc

** microprofile-health support

** Use separated managed-executor-service (java:jboss/ee/concurrency/executor/grpc) for gRPC calls.
The `managed-executor-service` configuration is explained in the `coffee-grpc-server-extension` documentation.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesnt need any migration.

Commit message:

680 - remove headline for emoji info

docs/en/migration/migration270to280.adoc, after:

= v2.7.0 → v2.8.0

coff:ee v2.7.0 -> v2.8.0 migration description, news, changes

== Global

Dependency replacement: `org.hibernate:hibernate-core` -> `org.hibernate.orm:hibernate-core` (the former artifact was just a proxy).

=== coffee-jpa

💥 ***BREAKING CHANGE*** 💥

The `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.jpa.sql.batch.BatchService` has been deleted.

==== Migration

* Add the new `hu.icellmobilsoft.frappee:frappee-jpa-batch-api` module to the Maven dependencies.
* The `hu.icellmobilsoft.frappee.jpa.batch.IJpaBatchService` must be used instead of the former `BatchService`.
* The `HibernateBatchService` Hibernate specific implementation of the `IJpaBatchService` can be found in the
`hu.icellmobilsoft.frappee:frappee-hiberante-batch` module.
* The JakartaEE 10 producer of the `HibernateBatchService` can be found in the `frappee-hiberante-batch-jee10`
module.
* If the former `BatchService` is extended by your project the new `HibernateBatchService` must be extended and a new
producer must be created. For more information check the Frapp:EE documentation.

=== coffee-dto-base

The `TechnicalException` has been deprecated. The new `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.se.api.exception.TechnicalException`
 should be used instead from the `coffee-se-api` module.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration. It is recommended to use the new
 `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.se.api.exception.TechnicalException`.

=== coffee-tool

The `RandomUtil` has been deprecated. The new `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.se.util.string.RandomUtil` should be used
instean from the `coffee-se-util` module.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration. It is recommended to use the new
 `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.se.util.string.RandomUtil`.

=== coffee-se-api

Intorducing the new `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.se.api.exception.TechnicalException`.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration.

=== coffee-se-util

New coff:ee module. Collection of utility classes.

Introducing the new `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.se.util.string.RandomUtil`.

* The generateToken() method has been made `public` unlike in the old RandomUtil class.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration.

=== coffee-mode-base

The `EntityIdGenerator` uses the new `RandomUtil` from the `coffee-se-util` module to generate random identifiers.
 Its implementation is 100% identical to the former one.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration.

=== coffee-rest

* Support of multiple xml catalog file separated with `,`
* For marshalling, you can give `JaxbTool` multiple classes to add to `JAXBContext`

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration.

=== coffee-grpc

** microprofile-health support

** Use separated managed-executor-service (java:jboss/ee/concurrency/executor/grpc) for gRPC calls.
The `managed-executor-service` configuration is explained in the `coffee-grpc-server-extension` documentation.

==== Migration

Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration.

=== coffee-module

* The headline of the emoji information description was removed in the adoc file generated by the `@ConfigDoc` annotation.

==== Migration

* Changes are backwards compatible doesn't need any migration.
