docs/en/common/module/coffee-module-etcd.adoc, before:

[#common_module_coffee-module-etcd]
= coffee-module-etcd

Module to manage ETCD, implement Microprofile ConfigSource

Functioning of the official 

.maven
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.etcd</groupId>
    <artifactId>jetcd-core</artifactId>
    <version>0.7.5</version>
</dependency>
----
based driver, extended with enterprise usage model options. More precise description on separate page

== Deploying configurations, configuring ETCD host
To deploy ETCD configurations, the coffee-module-etcd module is pulled in as a dependency.
This will provide the auxiliary classes needed for configuration management,
and contains an `EtcdConfig` implementation to define it,
that the `coffee.etcd.default.url` property included in the configuration will be the ETCD's reachability.
With the help of the following properties, additional optional configurations are possible for establishing the ETCD connection:

- `coffee.etcd.default.connection.timeout.millis`: connection timeout in milliseconds
- `coffee.etcd.default.retry.delay`: retry delay
- `coffee.etcd.default.retry.max.delay`: maximum retry delay
- `coffee.etcd.default.keepalive.time.seconds`: keepalive time in seconds
- `coffee.etcd.default.keepalive.timeout.seconds`: keepalive timeout in seconds
- `coffee.etcd.default.keepalive.without.calls`: keepalive without calls (true/false)
- `coffee.etcd.default.retry.chrono.unit`: retry period unit
- `coffee.etcd.default.retry.max.duration.seconds`: maximum retry duration in seconds
- `coffee.etcd.default.wait.for.ready`: enable gRPC wait for ready semantics (true/false)

On the backend side, there are several ways to manage configurations.
These typically support and complement each other.

== Microprofile-config
The microprofile-config annotation can be used to inject specific configuration values.
In order for microprofile-config to detect ETCD storage,
in our code, we need to activate the `coffee-module-etcd` in
ConfigSource implementation in the code of your code:

* `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.etcd.producer.DefaultEtcdConfigSource` - default config source
* `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.etcd.producer.CachedEtcdConfigSource` - cached config source.
The cache will remember the retrieved value for 30 minutes,
even if the ETCD does not contain it,
so we can reduce a lot of repetitive queries.
Cache is a thread safe singleton,
it is possible to clear it by calling `EtcdConfigSourceCache.instance().clear()`.
* `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.etcd.producer.RuntimeEtcdConfigSource` -
Can be activated during runtime as needed (e.g., AfterBeanDiscovery) as follows
+
[source,java]
----
RuntimeEtcdConfigSource.setActive(true);
----

* `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.etcd.producer.FilteredEtcdConfigSource` -
Decides whether to search for the key in ETCD based on configuration regex pattern parameters
+
[source,yaml]
----
coffee:
  configSource:
    FilteredEtcdConfigSource:
      pattern:
        include: ^(public|private)\\.
        exclude: ^private\\.
----
The example works with the following logic:

. `exclude` - is at the beginning of the processing order,
so it will be evaluated before `include`.
Optional.
If not specified, filtering will not be activated, allowing all keys to pass through.
If the searched key matches the pattern, it will not search in ETCD.
. `include` - optional.
If not specified, filtering will not be activated, allowing all keys to pass through.
It will search for the key in ETCD only if the searched key matches the pattern.
. Patterns
.. "private.sample.key1" - it will not search for the key in ETCD because the `exclude` pattern filters it out.
.. "public.sample.key2" - it will search for the key in ETCD because the `exclude` pattern allows it and the `include` pattern matches.
.. "org.sample.key3" - it will not search for the key in ETCD because the `exclude` pattern allows it but the `include` pattern filters it out.

Example ConfigSource activation:

.src/main/resources/META-INF/services/org.eclipse.microprofile.config.spi.ConfigSource
[source,java]
----
hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.etcd.producer.CachedEtcdConfigSource
----

The priority of ConfigSources is set to 150.

It is possible to inject String, Integer, Boolean, Long, Float and Double configurations. The ETCD always stores String, the parsing to the desired type is done after reading the value. The mechanism uses ConfigEtcdHandler in the background to read the values.
See link:#common_core_coffee-configuration[configuration module]

== ConfigEtcdHandler class
Provides a way to read and write ETCD configuration values in a context.
It uses ConfigEtcdService in the background.

.Write configuration
[source,java]
----
@Inject
private ConfigEtcdHandler configEtcdHandler;
...
configEtcdHandler.putValue("public.email.sender", "noreply@sample.teszt.hu");
----

.query configuration
[source,java]
----
@Inject
private ConfigEtcdHandler configEtcdHandler;
...
String adminEmail = configEtcdHandler.getValue("public.email.sender");
----

=== Reference to another configuration
ConfigEtcdHandler, and thus indirectly ConfigurationHelper and the @ConfigProperty annotation, also allow it,
the value of one config to refer to another config. In this case, { and } characters
to specify the referenced configuration.

.reference to another configuration
[source,java]
----
@Inject
private ConfigEtcdHandler configEtcdHandler;
...
configEtcdHandler.putValue("protected.iop.url.main", "http://sample-sandbox.hu/kr_esb_gateway/services/IOPService?wsdl");
configEtcdHandler.putValue("protected.iop.url.alternate", "http://localhost:8178/SampleMockService/IOPService2?wsdl");
configEtcdHandler.putValue("public.iop.url", "{protected.iop.url.main}");
String contactEmail = configEtcdHandler.getValue("public.iop.url"); //A return value "http://sample-sandbox.hu/kr_esb_gateway/services/IOPService?wsdl"
----
The reference must strictly refer to a specific other configuration, no other content is allowed.
For example, the embedded reference will not be resolved (http://{other.etcd.conf}:8178/SampleMockService/IOPService2?wsdl).

== ConfigEtcdService class
Provides the ability to query, write, list, search for configuration values.
The lowest class of those listed. All of the above mechanisms work through this
implement their functionality. Presumably you will only need to use it if you delete it,
list configurations.

.Write, query, delete a configuration
[source,java]
----
@Inject
private ConfigEtcdService configEtcdService;
...
configEtcdService.putValue("protected.iop.url.main", "http://sample-sandbox.hu/kr_esb_gateway/services/IOPService?wsdl"); //write
String senderEmail = configEtcdService.getValue("protected.iop.url.main"); //read
configEtcdService.delete("protected.iop.url.main"); //delete
----

.list configurations
[source,java]
----
@Inject
private ConfigEtcdService configEtcdService;
...
Map<String, String> allConfigMap = configEtcdService.getList(); //list all configuration
Map<String, String> publicConfigMap = configEtcdService.searchList("public."); //list configurations with a given prefix key (cannot be an empty String)
----

When requesting or deleting a non-existent configuration, the service throws a BONotFoundException.
Since this mechanism is used by all listed options, this is true for all of them.

== Namespaces, configuration naming conventions
The configuration handler does not support separate namespaces, all information stored in etcd is accessible.

Each configuration key starts with a visibility prefix.
They are managed according to the following conventions:
[options="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
|Prefix |Description   
//-------------
|`private.` |Only the configuration available to the backend   
|`protected.` |Accessible for both backend and frontend, frontend read-only configuration   
|`public.` |A configuration available to both backend and frontend, frontend can change its value   
|===

== Configuration management using Command Line Tool
Download and unpack the ETCD package for your system: https://github.com/coreos/etcd/releases/

Set the ETCDCTL_API environment variable to 3:
[source,batch]
----
#Linux
export ETCDCTL_API=3
 
#Windows
set ETCDCTL_API=3
----

From the command line, you can use etcdctl to read and write the values in the ETCD configuration:

[source,batch]
----
#Read the whole configuration
etcdctl --endpoints=%ETCD_ENDPOINTS% get "" --from-key
 
#Read the value of a given configuration
etcdctl --endpoints=%ETCD_ENDPOINTS% get private.sample
 
#Write the value of a given configuration
etcdctl --endpoints=%ETCD_ENDPOINTS% put private.sample ertek
----

== Logging
The retrieved keys and the resulting values are logged unless the key matches the regular expression `+++[\w\s]*?secret[\w\s]*?+++` or `+++[\w\s]*?pass[\w\s]*?+++`, in which case the value is masked and logged.
The default regex can be overridden by specifying `coffee.config.log.sensitive.key.pattern` in one of the *default* microprofile-config sources (sys var, env var, META-INF/microprofile-config.properties), multiple patterns can be specified separated by commas.

== microprofile-health támogatás

The *EtcdHealth* can check if the etcd server is reachable.

.Startup example
[source,java]
----
@ApplicationScoped
public class EtcdHealthCheck {

    @Inject
    private EtcdHealth etcdHealth;

    public HealthCheckResponse check() {
        try {
            return etcdHealth.checkConnection("etcd");
        } catch (BaseException e) {
            return HealthCheckResponse.builder().name("etcd").up().build();
        }
    }

    @Produces
    @Startup
    public HealthCheck produceEtcdCheck() {
        return this::check;
    }
}
----

Commit message:

#717 Runtime activation of ETCD Config Sources

docs/en/common/module/coffee-module-etcd.adoc, after:

[#common_module_coffee-module-etcd]
= coffee-module-etcd

Module to manage ETCD, implement Microprofile ConfigSource

Functioning of the official 

.maven
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.etcd</groupId>
    <artifactId>jetcd-core</artifactId>
    <version>0.7.5</version>
</dependency>
----
based driver, extended with enterprise usage model options. More precise description on separate page

== Deploying configurations, configuring ETCD host
To deploy ETCD configurations, the coffee-module-etcd module is pulled in as a dependency.
This will provide the auxiliary classes needed for configuration management,
and contains an `EtcdConfig` implementation to define it,
that the `coffee.etcd.default.url` property included in the configuration will be the ETCD's reachability.
With the help of the following properties, additional optional configurations are possible for establishing the ETCD connection:

- `coffee.etcd.default.connection.timeout.millis`: connection timeout in milliseconds
- `coffee.etcd.default.retry.delay`: retry delay
- `coffee.etcd.default.retry.max.delay`: maximum retry delay
- `coffee.etcd.default.keepalive.time.seconds`: keepalive time in seconds
- `coffee.etcd.default.keepalive.timeout.seconds`: keepalive timeout in seconds
- `coffee.etcd.default.keepalive.without.calls`: keepalive without calls (true/false)
- `coffee.etcd.default.retry.chrono.unit`: retry period unit
- `coffee.etcd.default.retry.max.duration.seconds`: maximum retry duration in seconds
- `coffee.etcd.default.wait.for.ready`: enable gRPC wait for ready semantics (true/false)

On the backend side, there are several ways to manage configurations.
These typically support and complement each other.

== Microprofile-config
The microprofile-config annotation can be used to inject specific configuration values.
In order for microprofile-config to detect ETCD storage,
in our code, we need to activate the `coffee-module-etcd` in
ConfigSource implementation in the code of your code:

* `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.etcd.producer.DefaultEtcdConfigSource` - default config source
* `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.etcd.producer.CachedEtcdConfigSource` - cached config source.
The cache will remember the retrieved value for 30 minutes,
even if the ETCD does not contain it,
so we can reduce a lot of repetitive queries.
Cache is a thread safe singleton,
it is possible to clear it by calling `EtcdConfigSourceCache.instance().clear()`.
Can be activated during runtime as needed as follows
+
[source,java]
----
CachedEtcdConfigSource.setActive(true);
----
* `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.etcd.producer.RuntimeEtcdConfigSource` -
Can be activated during runtime as needed (e.g., AfterBeanDiscovery) as follows
+
[source,java]
----
RuntimeEtcdConfigSource.setActive(true);
----

* `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.etcd.producer.FilteredEtcdConfigSource` -
Decides whether to search for the key in ETCD based on configuration regex pattern parameters
+
[source,yaml]
----
coffee:
  configSource:
    FilteredEtcdConfigSource:
      pattern:
        include: ^(public|private)\\.
        exclude: ^private\\.
----
The example works with the following logic:

. `exclude` - is at the beginning of the processing order,
so it will be evaluated before `include`.
Optional.
If not specified, filtering will not be activated, allowing all keys to pass through.
If the searched key matches the pattern, it will not search in ETCD.
. `include` - optional.
If not specified, filtering will not be activated, allowing all keys to pass through.
It will search for the key in ETCD only if the searched key matches the pattern.
. Patterns
.. "private.sample.key1" - it will not search for the key in ETCD because the `exclude` pattern filters it out.
.. "public.sample.key2" - it will search for the key in ETCD because the `exclude` pattern allows it and the `include` pattern matches.
.. "org.sample.key3" - it will not search for the key in ETCD because the `exclude` pattern allows it but the `include` pattern filters it out.

Example ConfigSource activation:

.src/main/resources/META-INF/services/org.eclipse.microprofile.config.spi.ConfigSource
[source,java]
----
hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.etcd.producer.CachedEtcdConfigSource
----

The priority of ConfigSources is set to 150.

It is possible to inject String, Integer, Boolean, Long, Float and Double configurations. The ETCD always stores String, the parsing to the desired type is done after reading the value. The mechanism uses ConfigEtcdHandler in the background to read the values.
See link:#common_core_coffee-configuration[configuration module]

== ConfigEtcdHandler class
Provides a way to read and write ETCD configuration values in a context.
It uses ConfigEtcdService in the background.

.Write configuration
[source,java]
----
@Inject
private ConfigEtcdHandler configEtcdHandler;
...
configEtcdHandler.putValue("public.email.sender", "noreply@sample.teszt.hu");
----

.query configuration
[source,java]
----
@Inject
private ConfigEtcdHandler configEtcdHandler;
...
String adminEmail = configEtcdHandler.getValue("public.email.sender");
----

=== Reference to another configuration
ConfigEtcdHandler, and thus indirectly ConfigurationHelper and the @ConfigProperty annotation, also allow it,
the value of one config to refer to another config. In this case, { and } characters
to specify the referenced configuration.

.reference to another configuration
[source,java]
----
@Inject
private ConfigEtcdHandler configEtcdHandler;
...
configEtcdHandler.putValue("protected.iop.url.main", "http://sample-sandbox.hu/kr_esb_gateway/services/IOPService?wsdl");
configEtcdHandler.putValue("protected.iop.url.alternate", "http://localhost:8178/SampleMockService/IOPService2?wsdl");
configEtcdHandler.putValue("public.iop.url", "{protected.iop.url.main}");
String contactEmail = configEtcdHandler.getValue("public.iop.url"); //A return value "http://sample-sandbox.hu/kr_esb_gateway/services/IOPService?wsdl"
----
The reference must strictly refer to a specific other configuration, no other content is allowed.
For example, the embedded reference will not be resolved (http://{other.etcd.conf}:8178/SampleMockService/IOPService2?wsdl).

== ConfigEtcdService class
Provides the ability to query, write, list, search for configuration values.
The lowest class of those listed. All of the above mechanisms work through this
implement their functionality. Presumably you will only need to use it if you delete it,
list configurations.

.Write, query, delete a configuration
[source,java]
----
@Inject
private ConfigEtcdService configEtcdService;
...
configEtcdService.putValue("protected.iop.url.main", "http://sample-sandbox.hu/kr_esb_gateway/services/IOPService?wsdl"); //write
String senderEmail = configEtcdService.getValue("protected.iop.url.main"); //read
configEtcdService.delete("protected.iop.url.main"); //delete
----

.list configurations
[source,java]
----
@Inject
private ConfigEtcdService configEtcdService;
...
Map<String, String> allConfigMap = configEtcdService.getList(); //list all configuration
Map<String, String> publicConfigMap = configEtcdService.searchList("public."); //list configurations with a given prefix key (cannot be an empty String)
----

When requesting or deleting a non-existent configuration, the service throws a BONotFoundException.
Since this mechanism is used by all listed options, this is true for all of them.

== Namespaces, configuration naming conventions
The configuration handler does not support separate namespaces, all information stored in etcd is accessible.

Each configuration key starts with a visibility prefix.
They are managed according to the following conventions:
[options="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
|Prefix |Description   
//-------------
|`private.` |Only the configuration available to the backend   
|`protected.` |Accessible for both backend and frontend, frontend read-only configuration   
|`public.` |A configuration available to both backend and frontend, frontend can change its value   
|===

== Configuration management using Command Line Tool
Download and unpack the ETCD package for your system: https://github.com/coreos/etcd/releases/

Set the ETCDCTL_API environment variable to 3:
[source,batch]
----
#Linux
export ETCDCTL_API=3
 
#Windows
set ETCDCTL_API=3
----

From the command line, you can use etcdctl to read and write the values in the ETCD configuration:

[source,batch]
----
#Read the whole configuration
etcdctl --endpoints=%ETCD_ENDPOINTS% get "" --from-key
 
#Read the value of a given configuration
etcdctl --endpoints=%ETCD_ENDPOINTS% get private.sample
 
#Write the value of a given configuration
etcdctl --endpoints=%ETCD_ENDPOINTS% put private.sample ertek
----

== Logging
The retrieved keys and the resulting values are logged unless the key matches the regular expression `+++[\w\s]*?secret[\w\s]*?+++` or `+++[\w\s]*?pass[\w\s]*?+++`, in which case the value is masked and logged.
The default regex can be overridden by specifying `coffee.config.log.sensitive.key.pattern` in one of the *default* microprofile-config sources (sys var, env var, META-INF/microprofile-config.properties), multiple patterns can be specified separated by commas.

== microprofile-health támogatás

The *EtcdHealth* can check if the etcd server is reachable.

.Startup example
[source,java]
----
@ApplicationScoped
public class EtcdHealthCheck {

    @Inject
    private EtcdHealth etcdHealth;

    public HealthCheckResponse check() {
        try {
            return etcdHealth.checkConnection("etcd");
        } catch (BaseException e) {
            return HealthCheckResponse.builder().name("etcd").up().build();
        }
    }

    @Produces
    @Startup
    public HealthCheck produceEtcdCheck() {
        return this::check;
    }
}
----
