docs/en/common/module/coffee-module-mp-restclient.adoc, before:

[#common_module_coffee-module-mp-restclient]
= coffee-module-mp-restclient

The purpose of this module is to support a microprofile restclient which includes the following principles:

* Coffee compatibility - copying original request headers, passing log MDC keys, exception handling
* Business process traceability - request/response logging
* HTTP communication customization - internal/external HTTP communication modifiability (e.g. between services
different REST http than say when sending request to XY, different headers,
content, content-type, etc..), TLS encryption, URL and behaviour (timeout, repeat, etc...) override
* Exception customization - locally modifiable error handling

== microprofile-rest-client
The starting point is https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client[microprofile-rest-client]
which is a member of the https://microprofile.io/[micropfile.io] group. It can do many things
off our shoulders, it can be used on its own but needs to be extended to meet the needs of projects
some useful features. 

== Core
Most of the above principles are implemented in the https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client[microprofile-rest-client]
the rest is done by the next few classes.

=== DefaultLoggerClientRequestFilter
This is a default REST client *REQUEST logger*,
which takes into account if `LogSpecifier` is specified with `CLIENT_REQUEST` target (<<common_core_coffee-rest_LogSpecifier,LogSpecifier>>).
So it will log the HTTP *request* data sent by the client:

* HTTP method, URL address
* HTTP headers
* cookies
* Entity

It sends all this to the logger at INFO level.

=== DefaultLoggerClientResponseFilter
This is a default REST client *RESPONSE logger*,
which takes into account if you have specified `LogSpecifier` with `CLIENT_RESPONSE` target (<<common_core_coffee-rest_LogSpecifier,LogSpecifier>>).
So it will log the HTTP *request response* data sent by the client:

* HTTP status + accessories
* HTTP headers
* cookies
* locale, location values
* Entity

All this is sent to the logger at INFO level

=== DefaultSettingClientRequestFilter
This is a default REST client "REST setting copy".
Its job is to bind the REST call through *services*,
so that, for example, the basics of logging and *authentication* can work.

In other words, when a REST request comes into the service,
processing in the microservice requires a call through to another microservice,
then that HTTP call needs to include those HTTP headers in the same way,
which were entered in the service request, so that the authentication there can be successful.
Specifically, the setting of the authentication MDC variables will be included in the HTTP headers sent out.

=== DefaultBaseExceptionResponseExceptionMapper
Its purpose is to process the error received in the response,
from the usual coffee BaseException `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.dto.exception.RestClientResponseException`
class.

[#common_module_coffee-module-mp-restclient_DefaultRestClientBuilderListener]
=== DefaultRestClientBuilderListener
This is a *default "activator" for connecting the above listed classes*.
This class can be used directly or configured freely.
Additionally, the HTTP client timeout values are defined in this class:

* 5 sec connect timeout
* 1 min read timeout

If there is any operational change request,
it can be influenced through this central "activator" class,
further options are mentioned below,
which are done according to the rules of https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client[microprofile-rest-client].

That "activator" should also be taken into account in the
https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client[microprofile-rest-client]
must be registered in the following file:

.src/main/resources/META-INF/services/org.eclipse.microprofile.rest.client.spi.RestClientBuilderListener 
[source,txt]
----
# coffee default
hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.mp.restclient.provider.DefaultRestClientBuilderListener
# projects customized
#hu.icellmobilsoft.sample.invoice.service.provider.ProjectRestClientBuilderListener
----
This is a plain txt file without postfix and extension.

=== FaultTypeParserExtension
Gathers enum classes implementing the `IFaultType` interface.
Based on this, `FaultTypeParser` is able to parse the response String faultCode in mp rest client calls to enum and map it to the corresponding exception.

IMPORTANT:: It can only parse enums accessible by the container, this requires that `beans.xml` is present in the implementation module.

The read implementations can be ordered by the `@Priority` annotation, the default priority is 500.

== Implementation in the project

=== pom.xml

.Coffee module activation
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.mp.restclient</groupId>
    <artifactId>coffee-module-mp-restclient</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

You may also need to activate the application server extension,
which for example in thorntail server is:

.thorntail application server activation
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.thorntail</groupId>
    <artifactId>microprofile-restclient</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Usage examples
IMPORTANT: For a complete detailed description of the usage itself, see
https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client[microprofile-rest-client]
relese releases. We will mention a few examples here locally.

=== Sample usage
==== Initialization
In the class where the REST operations are defined
(if you follow the company recommended REST structure then this is the REST interface) you need to add the
@RegisterRestClient annotation.
This basically tells the microprofile-rest-client system
to refer to the REST endpoints defined in it as HTTP REST clients.
In the client itself you will be able to use the types and annotations used here,
the burden falls on the separate settings for these (e.g. text/xml, application/json, entity class, etc...)
[source,java]
----
@Tag(name = IInvoiceTestRest.TAG_TEST, description = "SYSTEM REST test operations required for Invoice Processor")
@Path(InvoicePath.TEST_INVOICE_SERVICE)
@RegisterRestClient // <1>
public interface IInvoiceTestRest {

    static final String TAG_TEST = "Test";
    ...
----
<1> add the @RegisterRestClient annotation.
Usually nothing else is needed (unless there are some special needs), old functionality is not affected

==== Using HTTP client
The most used instances of HTTP REST client in the code:

.CDI inject
[source,java]
----
import javax.enterprise.inject.Model;
import javax.inject.Inject;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.rest.client.inject.RestClient;

import hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.dto.exception.BaseException;
import hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.mp.restclient.util.MPRestClienUtil;

@Model
public class TestAction {

    @Inject
    @RestClient // <1>
    private IInvoiceTestRest iInvoiceTestRest; // <2>

    public String test() throws BaseException {
        try {
            iInvoiceTestRest.postValidatorTest(entityClass); // <3>
        } catch (Exception e) { // <4>
            throw MPRestClientUtil.toBaseException(e); // <5>
        }
        return null;
    }
}
----
<1> mp-rest-client @Qualifier annotation that creates the HTTP client wrapper
<2> interface marked with the @RegisterRestClient annotation
<3> HTTP REST client call - this is where the configuration settings (URL, HTTP header, timeout, etc...) come into play
<4> general HTTP management. The operation itself is defined as BaseException but it is at the service level,
we are using it as a client and at <1> we wrapped it in a wrapper,
which may return with other RuntimeException errors
<5> Coffee level pre-written Exception compiler

In fact, a boilerplate wrapper will be created for the whole thing to simplify the coding even more.

.inline
[source,java]
----
import java.net.URI;

import javax.enterprise.inject.Model;
import javax.inject.Inject;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.rest.client.RestClientBuilder;

import hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.dto.exception.BaseException;
import hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.mp.restclient.util.MPRestClienUtil;

@Model
public class TestAction {

    public String doWorkAgainstApi(URI uri, Object entity) {
        try {
            IInvoiceTestRest iInvoiceTestRest = RestClientBuilder //
                    .newBuilder() // <1>
                    .baseUri(uri) // <2>
                    .build(IInvoiceTestRest.class); <3>
            return iInvoiceTestRest.postValidatorTest(entity);
        } catch (Exception e) { // <4>
            throw MPRestClientUtil.toBaseException(e); // <5>
        }
        return null;
    }
}
----
<1> here calls <<common_module_coffee-module-mp-restclient_DefaultRestClientBuilderListener,DefaultRestClientBuilderListener>>,
any setting of which can be overridden.
<2> override the URI defined in the configs
<3> interface marked with the @RegisterRestClient annotation
<4> general error handling. The operation itself has BaseException defined but the builder wrapped it in a wrapper,
which may return other RuntimeException errors
<5> Exception compiler pre-written in Coffee

This use case is very specific,
if possible, strive for a CDI and configuration level solution.

=== Configuration options
Configurations can be specified at the same time as annotations,
but of course the options of microprofile-config are also given now.
I will also list some of the most common configuration patterns.
The syntax itself is the covariate:

[source,txt]
----
category-key-name/mp-rest/key

or

full-class-name/mp-rest/key
----
Where:

* *category-key-name* - keyword we choose in our code
and used in the `@RegisterRestClient(configKey="invoiceService")` annotation,
which in our case is for example "invoiceService"
* *full-class-name* - class (in our case, rather interface) name,
where the @RegisterRestClient annotation is loaded. Avoid *this kind of configuration* if possible,
as later refactoring may cause hidden errors in the configurations
* */mp-rest* - microprofile-rest-client default keyword 
* */key* - the key itself supported by microprofile-rest-client, e.g.: url, providers, readTimeout, etc...

.project-default.yml - sample configuration
[source,yaml]
----
"invoiceService/mp-rest/url": http://localhost:8083
"invoiceService/mp-rest/providers": hu.icellmobilsoft.project.invoice.CustomProvider

#or the other option

"hu.icellmobilsoft.project.invoice.service.rest.IInvoiceTestRest/mp-rest/url": http://localhost:8083
"hu.icellmobilsoft.project.invoice.service.rest.IInvoiceTestRest/mp-rest/providers": hu.icellmobilsoft.project.invoice.CustomProvider
----

Commit message:

#568 faulttypeparser update with annotation - doc

docs/en/common/module/coffee-module-mp-restclient.adoc, after:

[#common_module_coffee-module-mp-restclient]
= coffee-module-mp-restclient

The purpose of this module is to support a microprofile restclient which includes the following principles:

* Coffee compatibility - copying original request headers, passing log MDC keys, exception handling
* Business process traceability - request/response logging
* HTTP communication customization - internal/external HTTP communication modifiability (e.g. between services
different REST http than say when sending request to XY, different headers,
content, content-type, etc..), TLS encryption, URL and behaviour (timeout, repeat, etc...) override
* Exception customization - locally modifiable error handling

== microprofile-rest-client
The starting point is https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client[microprofile-rest-client]
which is a member of the https://microprofile.io/[micropfile.io] group. It can do many things
off our shoulders, it can be used on its own but needs to be extended to meet the needs of projects
some useful features. 

== Core
Most of the above principles are implemented in the https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client[microprofile-rest-client]
the rest is done by the next few classes.

=== DefaultLoggerClientRequestFilter
This is a default REST client *REQUEST logger*,
which takes into account if `LogSpecifier` is specified with `CLIENT_REQUEST` target (<<common_core_coffee-rest_LogSpecifier,LogSpecifier>>).
So it will log the HTTP *request* data sent by the client:

* HTTP method, URL address
* HTTP headers
* cookies
* Entity

It sends all this to the logger at INFO level.

=== DefaultLoggerClientResponseFilter
This is a default REST client *RESPONSE logger*,
which takes into account if you have specified `LogSpecifier` with `CLIENT_RESPONSE` target (<<common_core_coffee-rest_LogSpecifier,LogSpecifier>>).
So it will log the HTTP *request response* data sent by the client:

* HTTP status + accessories
* HTTP headers
* cookies
* locale, location values
* Entity

All this is sent to the logger at INFO level

=== DefaultSettingClientRequestFilter
This is a default REST client "REST setting copy".
Its job is to bind the REST call through *services*,
so that, for example, the basics of logging and *authentication* can work.

In other words, when a REST request comes into the service,
processing in the microservice requires a call through to another microservice,
then that HTTP call needs to include those HTTP headers in the same way,
which were entered in the service request, so that the authentication there can be successful.
Specifically, the setting of the authentication MDC variables will be included in the HTTP headers sent out.

=== DefaultBaseExceptionResponseExceptionMapper
Its purpose is to process the error received in the response,
from the usual coffee BaseException `hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.dto.exception.RestClientResponseException`
class.

[#common_module_coffee-module-mp-restclient_DefaultRestClientBuilderListener]
=== DefaultRestClientBuilderListener
This is a *default "activator" for connecting the above listed classes*.
This class can be used directly or configured freely.
Additionally, the HTTP client timeout values are defined in this class:

* 5 sec connect timeout
* 1 min read timeout

If there is any operational change request,
it can be influenced through this central "activator" class,
further options are mentioned below,
which are done according to the rules of https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client[microprofile-rest-client].

That "activator" should also be taken into account in the
https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client[microprofile-rest-client]
must be registered in the following file:

.src/main/resources/META-INF/services/org.eclipse.microprofile.rest.client.spi.RestClientBuilderListener 
[source,txt]
----
# coffee default
hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.mp.restclient.provider.DefaultRestClientBuilderListener
# projects customized
#hu.icellmobilsoft.sample.invoice.service.provider.ProjectRestClientBuilderListener
----
This is a plain txt file without postfix and extension.

=== FaultTypeParserExtension
Gathers enum classes implementing the `IFaultType` interface and annotated with `@hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.cdi.annotation.FaultTypeCode`.
Based on this, `FaultTypeParser` is able to parse the response String faultCode in mp rest client calls to enum and map it to the corresponding exception.

IMPORTANT:: It can only parse enums accessible by the container, this requires that `beans.xml` is present in the implementation module.

The read implementations can be ordered by the `@Priority` annotation, the default priority is 500.

== Implementation in the project

=== pom.xml

.Coffee module activation
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.mp.restclient</groupId>
    <artifactId>coffee-module-mp-restclient</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

You may also need to activate the application server extension,
which for example in thorntail server is:

.thorntail application server activation
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.thorntail</groupId>
    <artifactId>microprofile-restclient</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Usage examples
IMPORTANT: For a complete detailed description of the usage itself, see
https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-rest-client[microprofile-rest-client]
relese releases. We will mention a few examples here locally.

=== Sample usage
==== Initialization
In the class where the REST operations are defined
(if you follow the company recommended REST structure then this is the REST interface) you need to add the
@RegisterRestClient annotation.
This basically tells the microprofile-rest-client system
to refer to the REST endpoints defined in it as HTTP REST clients.
In the client itself you will be able to use the types and annotations used here,
the burden falls on the separate settings for these (e.g. text/xml, application/json, entity class, etc...)
[source,java]
----
@Tag(name = IInvoiceTestRest.TAG_TEST, description = "SYSTEM REST test operations required for Invoice Processor")
@Path(InvoicePath.TEST_INVOICE_SERVICE)
@RegisterRestClient // <1>
public interface IInvoiceTestRest {

    static final String TAG_TEST = "Test";
    ...
----
<1> add the @RegisterRestClient annotation.
Usually nothing else is needed (unless there are some special needs), old functionality is not affected

==== Using HTTP client
The most used instances of HTTP REST client in the code:

.CDI inject
[source,java]
----
import javax.enterprise.inject.Model;
import javax.inject.Inject;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.rest.client.inject.RestClient;

import hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.dto.exception.BaseException;
import hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.mp.restclient.util.MPRestClienUtil;

@Model
public class TestAction {

    @Inject
    @RestClient // <1>
    private IInvoiceTestRest iInvoiceTestRest; // <2>

    public String test() throws BaseException {
        try {
            iInvoiceTestRest.postValidatorTest(entityClass); // <3>
        } catch (Exception e) { // <4>
            throw MPRestClientUtil.toBaseException(e); // <5>
        }
        return null;
    }
}
----
<1> mp-rest-client @Qualifier annotation that creates the HTTP client wrapper
<2> interface marked with the @RegisterRestClient annotation
<3> HTTP REST client call - this is where the configuration settings (URL, HTTP header, timeout, etc...) come into play
<4> general HTTP management. The operation itself is defined as BaseException but it is at the service level,
we are using it as a client and at <1> we wrapped it in a wrapper,
which may return with other RuntimeException errors
<5> Coffee level pre-written Exception compiler

In fact, a boilerplate wrapper will be created for the whole thing to simplify the coding even more.

.inline
[source,java]
----
import java.net.URI;

import javax.enterprise.inject.Model;
import javax.inject.Inject;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.rest.client.RestClientBuilder;

import hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.dto.exception.BaseException;
import hu.icellmobilsoft.coffee.module.mp.restclient.util.MPRestClienUtil;

@Model
public class TestAction {

    public String doWorkAgainstApi(URI uri, Object entity) {
        try {
            IInvoiceTestRest iInvoiceTestRest = RestClientBuilder //
                    .newBuilder() // <1>
                    .baseUri(uri) // <2>
                    .build(IInvoiceTestRest.class); <3>
            return iInvoiceTestRest.postValidatorTest(entity);
        } catch (Exception e) { // <4>
            throw MPRestClientUtil.toBaseException(e); // <5>
        }
        return null;
    }
}
----
<1> here calls <<common_module_coffee-module-mp-restclient_DefaultRestClientBuilderListener,DefaultRestClientBuilderListener>>,
any setting of which can be overridden.
<2> override the URI defined in the configs
<3> interface marked with the @RegisterRestClient annotation
<4> general error handling. The operation itself has BaseException defined but the builder wrapped it in a wrapper,
which may return other RuntimeException errors
<5> Exception compiler pre-written in Coffee

This use case is very specific,
if possible, strive for a CDI and configuration level solution.

=== Configuration options
Configurations can be specified at the same time as annotations,
but of course the options of microprofile-config are also given now.
I will also list some of the most common configuration patterns.
The syntax itself is the covariate:

[source,txt]
----
category-key-name/mp-rest/key

or

full-class-name/mp-rest/key
----
Where:

* *category-key-name* - keyword we choose in our code
and used in the `@RegisterRestClient(configKey="invoiceService")` annotation,
which in our case is for example "invoiceService"
* *full-class-name* - class (in our case, rather interface) name,
where the @RegisterRestClient annotation is loaded. Avoid *this kind of configuration* if possible,
as later refactoring may cause hidden errors in the configurations
* */mp-rest* - microprofile-rest-client default keyword 
* */key* - the key itself supported by microprofile-rest-client, e.g.: url, providers, readTimeout, etc...

.project-default.yml - sample configuration
[source,yaml]
----
"invoiceService/mp-rest/url": http://localhost:8083
"invoiceService/mp-rest/providers": hu.icellmobilsoft.project.invoice.CustomProvider

#or the other option

"hu.icellmobilsoft.project.invoice.service.rest.IInvoiceTestRest/mp-rest/url": http://localhost:8083
"hu.icellmobilsoft.project.invoice.service.rest.IInvoiceTestRest/mp-rest/providers": hu.icellmobilsoft.project.invoice.CustomProvider
----
